# Javascript 

---

Javascript, In laymans terms is the language that allows a user to *interact* with your Webpage. It is best known as the scripting language for Web pages, but it is also used in many non browser environments.  

# Input Output  

---

-One of the most simple things java can do for you is display added text on your site. This can can be done using the "alert" function. This will show a popup in the browser with your chosen text.  
-You can also use the document.write function. Java will use this to change the desired content on your page. Such as a heading or other.  

# Console

---

The "console" is an added window in the browser that is not normally visable. Here the browser can print out warnings and errors generated by the execution of javascript code. The developer can also print information to this console using the console.log() call.    
In order to see the console you will need to open it, this is different for certain operating systems. For windows all you need to do is right click on your webpage when its open in a browser, then click inspect.  

# Variables  

---

The word variables in java has the same meaning as basic algebra. Say X, Y, And Z. They are containers for storing data values, and you declare them using the "var" "let" or "const" keywords.  
If you want to set a general rule then you need to declare variables with "const". If you think the value of the variable will change then use "let". Only use "Var" if you want your code to run on an older browser(2015 and previous).  
You must use **identifiers** to discern your variables from one another. You can use short names (like x, or y) or you can use more descriptive names (age, sum, totalVolume)  
It's a good programming practice to declare all variables at the beginning of a script.

**Assignment Operator**  
In JavaScript the = sign is an assignment operator. This is not the same as algebra for example.  

x = x+5 

it assigns the value of x + 5 to x.

(It calculates the value of x + 5 and puts the result into x. The value of x is incremented by 5.)  

Note-The "equal to" operator is written like == in JavaScript.  

# Javascript Data Types  

---

JavaScript variables can hold numbers like 100 and text values like "John Doe". In programming, text values are called text strings.  

# How Computers Work  

---

The basic functions of a computer are.  
-Take Input  
-Store the information  
-Process said information  
-And output the results  

Computers use 1's and zero's (binary) to transmit information. This information is called "bits".  
The binary is transmitted through circuits. Smaller circuits and faster because the electricity has a much smaller distance to travel. This is why our new smaller computers are much faster and more efficient than the giant computers of the past.  
Input devices vary from your keyboard and mouse. To the simple thermostat in your car. Output devices also vary greatly, your computer/phone screen are a main one.  
Hardware is the physical objects in technology that you see while you are using it. Software you do not see, it is the code running on your machine.  
